
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E1208]
              THE 40TH VOTE TO REPEAL AFFORDABLE CARE ACT

                                 ______
                                 

                           HON. ANNA G. ESHOO

                             of california

                    in the house of representatives

                         Friday, August 2, 2013

  Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, there is something extraordinary taking 
place. Not only are we implementing the Affordable Care Act across 50 
states benefitting hundreds of millions of people in our country, but 
there is simultaneously an effort in the House of Representatives to 
repeal the law for the 40th time.
  Imagine. . .this is not the fourth time, but the 40th time that 
Republicans are moving to take away rights to which Americans are 
legally entitled. These are the rights signed into law by the President 
and confirmed by the United States Supreme Court.
  There's never been such an effort in Congress in the history of our 
country where a measure has been taken up 40 times. I believe my 
friends on the other side of the aisle are on the wrong side of 
history.
  I would like to highlight this phenomenon through the lens of 
constituents and the rights they have and the rights that my Republican 
colleagues want to take away from them.
  They want to reopen the prescription drug donut hole that was created 
through the program that they supported, costing seniors thousands of 
out-of-pocket expenses a year.
  They want to take away from children the ability to stay on their 
parents' insurance policy up to the age of 26.
  They want to take away lifetime limit caps on insurance policies. How 
can anyone argue that lifetime limit caps were ever good policy?
  They want to take away preventive services from Americans like 
mammograms and colonoscopies.
  They want to take away health care premiums that are actually spent 
on medical care instead of advertising.
  They want to take away the right to plain language explanations of 
plan benefits.
  And most of all, they want to take away the rights of my constituents 
to health insurance for those with preexisting conditions.
  Thomas Jefferson said in 1808 that ``great innovations should not be 
forced on slender majorities.'' I think an overwhelming number of 
American people would say they are in favor of the rights they have 
under the Affordable Care Act, versus going back to a time of 
discriminatory practices of private insurers.

                          ____________________




    