
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E66]
 INTRODUCTION OF BILL TO REPEAL PATIENT PROTECTION AND AFFORDABLE CARE 
                                  ACT

                                 ______
                                 

                           HON. PAUL C. BROUN

                               of georgia

                    in the house of representatives

                       Tuesday, January 18, 2011

  Mr. BROUN of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, today, I am honored to introduce a 
bill that repeals the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and 
the accompanying Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, 
and replaces it with four specific health care reform policies which 
will improve the challenges facing our country's health care financing.
  Americans desire true health care reform that lowers premium costs, 
meets their medical needs regardless of what job they currently have or 
which state they live in, strengthens the doctor-patient relationship, 
and provides an affordable approach for medical insurance coverage for 
those uninsured or with pre-existing medical conditions. Many Members 
in Congress have expressed support for the ideas listed above and for 
the following specific solutions to these issues:
  (1) Individuals should be afforded the same tax advantages that 
businesses have by being able to deduct their 100 percent of all of 
their health care expenses from their taxes, including insurance.
  (2) Strengthen and expand new avenues for affordable health care for 
sick Americans through high-risk pools.
  (3) Expand choice and competition by allowing consumers to shop for 
health insurance across state lines.
  (4) Create association health plans, which would allow small 
businesses and other entities to form pools that will increase 
availability and allow their sheer size to negotiate lower costs for 
their employees or members.
  While it's understood that these concepts do not make up a complete 
solution to our nation's health care financing problems, they would be 
a strong foundation to start to address the inequities inherent in the 
health care financing system, while still allowing for future 
additional reforms.

                          ____________________




    