
        


[Page H4785]
                    MMM, MMM BAD HEALTH CARE POLICY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Crowley) for 2 minutes.
  Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, today, Republicans in the House will once 
again bring up a repeal of the Affordable Care Act.
  We've seen a lot of repeal from them, but not as much with respect to 
their so-called plan to replace. I think I've figured out what the GOP 
wants to replace the Affordable Care Act with.
  Here is what I assume must be the Republican plan for health care in 
our country: chicken noodle soup. Chicken noodle soup? Many of our 
mothers and grandmothers have told us that chicken noodle soup is a 
cure-all for anything, but I think the Republican plan takes Grandma at 
her word a little too literally.
  Can't afford health care coverage and need medical care? Have some 
chicken noodle soup. Have you been diagnosed with a serious disease and 
can't afford the prescription drugs you need to treat it? Have some 
chicken noodle soup. At least you can rely on good old-fashioned 
chicken noodle soup. Have a preexisting condition like diabetes that 
lets your insurance company deny you coverage? That's okay. Have some 
chicken noodle soup and you'll feel better in the morning.
  The truth is, it won't be all better in the morning. That's why we 
enacted the Affordable Care Act, to ensure that people could get the 
affordable, quality coverage they need; that seniors can afford their 
prescription medications; and that an insurance company can no longer 
deny you coverage because you have a preexisting condition.
  I don't know why Republicans want to go back to the day when chicken 
noodle soup was the only option for hardworking families who couldn't 
afford care. The truth is, chicken noodle soup might be mmm, mmm good 
for lunch, but as a health care policy, it is mmm, mmm bad.

                          ____________________




    