
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E1254]
               INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT (IHCIA)

                                 ______
                                 

                             HON. DON YOUNG

                               of alaska

                    in the house of representatives

                         Tuesday, July 17, 2012

  Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I would like to speak to a 
provision of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) that I believe should be 
exempted from the wholesale repeal of ACA, and that is section 10221--
which is the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) provisions of 
the bill. I urge my colleagues in the House of Representatives not to 
forget that with the repeal of the Affordable Care Act, there would 
also be a repeal of the permanent reauthorization of the IHCIA, which 
ensures that American Indians and Alaska Natives will have access to 
improved health care.
  The IHCIA amendments enacted in 10221 of ACA were developed 
completely separate from ACA and had a distinct legislative history. 
The IHCIA amendments were developed in a more than decade long process 
involving tribes, tribal organizations of the federal government on how 
best to update the quite out of date IHICA--which had its last major 
reauthorization in 1992.
  While I was a proponent of considering the IHCIA independently, 
ultimately the IHCIA provisions were included in ACA. The ACA was a 
legislative vehicle that was moving so that the IHCIA provisions could 
finally be enacted.
  There are a number of key provisions within IHCIA that will greatly 
enhance the well being of tribal communities. Such provisions include: 
new and expanded authorities for behavioral health prevention and 
treatment services; authorities for demonstration projects including 
projects for innovative health care facility construction and health 
professional shortages; and authority for the provision of dialysis 
services.
  The health of American Indian and Alaska Native people, who already 
endure some of the largest negative health disparities, should not be 
negatively affected because the IHCIA provisions, through chance, were 
included in ACA.

                          ____________________




    