
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Pages E1087-E1088]
                   FAIRNESS FOR AMERICAN FAMILIES ACT

                                 ______
                                 

                               speech of

                         HON. YVETTE D. CLARKE

                              of new york

                    in the house of representatives

                        Wednesday, July 17, 2013

  Ms. CLARKE. Mr. Speaker, I oppose H.R. 2668 the Fairness for American 
Families Act; which would seek to delay until 2015 the requirement that 
individuals maintain minimal essential health care coverage.
  Once again, for the 38th time, Republicans are voting to repeal parts 
of the Affordable Care Act.
  The individual responsibility requirement under the Affordable Care 
Act, which calls for purchasing coverage or paying a penalty, covers 
only those who have access to affordable coverage. If an individual 
does not have access to coverage with premiums that are 8 percent or 
less of their income, the individual is exempt.
  Individuals are also exempt if their income is so low they do not 
have to file a federal tax return; or if they qualify for an exemption

[[Page E1088]]

based on hardship, religious beliefs, and certain other factors; or 
they spend less than three consecutive months without coverage.
  Therefore, the Republicans' disingenuous concern that Americans will 
be punished if they are unable to afford coverage is simply not true!
  The Affordable Care Act's individual responsibility provision is a 
critical component of the additional patient protections and reforms 
that go into effect in 2014. Health experts have determined that if, 
beginning in 2014, insurers can no longer deny coverage to people with 
pre-existing conditions and can no longer charge them higher premiums, 
premiums in health insurance marketplaces would rise sharply unless all 
Americans with access to affordable insurance either purchase it or pay 
a penalty.
  This is yet another attempt to obstruct and undermine the successful 
implementation of the Affordable Care Act.
  The result of this bill's delay of the individual responsibility 
provision would be to limit access to affordable coverage for millions 
of Americans and thereby, weaken one of the primary premises of the 
Affordable Care Act.
  Don't fall for this trick! I ask my colleagues to stand in with me in 
solidarity and vote no on this bill.

                          ____________________




    