
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E2836]
                 AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE FOR AMERICA ACT

                                 ______
                                 

                               speech of

                         HON. DONNA F. EDWARDS

                              of maryland

                    in the house of representatives

                       Saturday, November 7, 2009

  Ms. EDWARDS of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I strongly support H.R. 3962, 
the Affordable Health Care for America Act because it eliminates the 
discriminatory insurance industry practice of charging women higher 
premium rates than male customers for the same insurance benefits. This 
practice, known as ``gender rating,'' leaves women burdened by higher 
insurance costs. In fact, women are charged 25-50 percent more than men 
for comparable insurance benefits. For decades, insurance underwriters 
have tried to justify this disparity by asserting that women use more 
health care, especially during child-bearing years. This claim is 
contradicted by the reality that many women are denied insurance 
coverage for maternity care and even denied coverage based on a history 
of prior pregnancies. Further, female nonsmokers pay more for health 
insurance than men who smoke. In a recent study, more than half of 
women (compared to 39 percent of men) reported delaying needed medical 
care due to cost. Gender rating is prohibited in the individual market 
in 10 States (Maine, Massachusetts, Montana, Minnesota, New Hampshire, 
New Jersey, New York, North Dakota, Oregon, and Washington). Two States 
have ``rate bands'' that allow 20 percent variation in charges (Vermont 
and New Mexico). Twelve States ban gender rating in the small group 
market, including my home State of Maryland (as well as California, 
Colorado, Minnesota, Michigan, Montana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, 
New Hampshire, New York, Oregon, and Washington). H.R. 3962 ends the 
discriminatory practice of gender rating in all States and ensures that 
women and men are charged equitable prices for premiums.
  As a life-long advocate of women's rights and a domestic violence 
prevention advocate, I support this ban on gender rating and support 
equal access to the insurance market for women.

                          ____________________




    