
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E2775]
                 AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE FOR AMERICA ACT

                                 ______
                                 

                               speech of

                            HON. JARED POLIS

                              of colorado

                    in the house of representatives

                       Saturday, November 7, 2009

  Mr. POLIS. Madam Speaker, I would like to express my strong 
opposition to the Stupak/Pitts Amendment, which unfortunately passed 
the House by a vote of 240-194. This amendment places a woman's right 
to choose at risk, for it would place new obstacles in the way of women 
seeking reproductive health care services. The Stupak Amendment goes 
further than existing laws. This amendment dictates which medical 
procedures are offered in the private market.
  Health care reform is supposed to increase coverage. This amendment 
singles out women and reduces their coverage. Women's access to 
comprehensive reproductive health services is not just about equality 
between men and women but also equality along economic lines. This 
amendment sets up a system where only wealthier women could afford a 
safe abortion. It would prohibit low-income women who receive 
affordability tax credits from purchasing a private insurance plan that 
covers abortion, despite the fact that over 80 percent of health 
insurance plans currently cover abortion. In other words, a woman who 
happens to be low-income will be denied the right to purchase a health 
care plan with abortion coverage simply because she qualifies for 
affordability tax credits. This is discriminatory, plain and simple.
  Besides purchasing insurance in the exchange, the primary alternative 
for low-income individuals is the public option. Not only does this 
amendment prohibit access to abortion coverage if a low-income woman 
receives affordability tax credits in the exchange, but this amendment 
also prohibits the public option from providing abortion care, despite 
the fact that it would be funded through private premium dollars.
  Under the Stupak Amendment, low-income women who either receive 
affordability tax credits or purchase insurance through the public 
option have to purchase a separate, single-service ``abortion rider'' 
policy. Not only does this idea discriminate against low-income women 
but it makes no sense either. Women who end up in the tough position of 
having to seek an abortion never planned on being in that situation. 
The vast majority of women will not choose to purchase an ``abortion 
rider'' policy because they do not plan on ever having an abortion, and 
when the day arises when they may need abortion coverage, unfortunately 
it will not be there for them.
  The women of America should have access to their fundamental right to 
choose, regardless of their income level. I urge my colleagues to join 
me today in defense of that fundamental right.

                          ____________________




    