
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E1226]
                  HEALTHCARE REPEAL AND WOMEN'S RIGHTS

                                 ______
                                 

                     HON. LOUISE McINTOSH SLAUGHTER

                              of new york

                    in the house of representatives

                        Wednesday, July 11, 2012

  Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, this bill will never become law, and it 
is a perfect symbol of the failure of this Congress.
  Over the last two years we've voted more than 30 times to mess with 
the healthcare reforms in the Affordable Care Act. This Congress could 
barely bring itself to pass a transportation bill, yet it found the 
time to vote on the same issue 30 times.
  The second biggest priority of this Congress appears to be the 
legislative war on women. We've taken at least 9 votes to take away 
rights and protections away from women, and specifically attacking 
women's health.
  In short, this Congress has spent two years actively working against 
the rights of women and healthcare of American families.
  Prior to the Affordable Care Act becoming law, being a woman was a 
pre-existing condition. Women were denied health insurance coverage 
because they were victims of domestic abuse, and when they were given 
health insurance coverage, they oftentimes paid more than men for the 
same level of care. Companies that have a large number of female 
employees faced higher healthcare costs than other companies--all 
because health insurance companies could, and did, get away with price 
discrimination.
  The Affordable Care Act finally gave women equal rights when it came 
to healthcare, and it is the reason I rise to defend that lifesaving 
legislation today. I strongly oppose the political charade that is 
being carried out here today--and on behalf of every woman who is no 
longer a second-class citizen, I urge my colleagues to vote against 
today's bill.

                          ____________________




    