
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Pages E1052-E1053]
                 HEALTH CARE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2012

                                 ______
                                 

                               speech of

                          HON. LORETTA SANCHEZ

                             of california

                    in the house of representatives

                         Thursday, June 7, 2012

  Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
discuss my vote on H.R. 436, the Protect Medical Innovation Act of 
2011. As many of my colleagues know, I helped lead the charge 
throughout the 2010 healthcare debate to ensure the medical device 
industry was not overly burdened by the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act (ACA). During negotiations on the final healthcare 
bill, I made it a point to argue that overly taxing the medical device 
industry would stump innovation, affect patient care quality and burden 
an already struggling job market. When we came together to discuss 
health care reform, we agreed that it was necessary for everyone to 
contribute in order to ensure a successful outcome. That is why I 
fought tirelessly, within my own caucus, to make sure the bill was 
responsible in the way Congress paid for the legislation.
  As we approach the 2014 deadline of final implementation for ACA, 
many uncertainties have arisen from both the general public and 
business community. The Republican Majority has addressed this growing 
concern with an onslaught on key revenue provisions of the ACA. In 
fact, they have paid for those repeals by targeting programs from those 
individuals who need ACA the most. For that reason, I was forced to 
vote against H.R. 436, which CBO estimated, if enacted, could remove 
over 350,000 individuals off of health care. Given that many of my 
constituents rely on the health care benefits provided by the ACA, I 
could not support this bill as written.
  However, as the full implementation moves forward, I will continue to 
monitor the effects of this legislation on the medical device industry. 
If the capacity that is anticipated to flood the markets does not 
become realized, I am ready and willing to work with the medical device 
industry to unburden them of any unnecessary taxes, while responsibly 
ensuring that the rest of the ACA moves forward.

[[Page E1053]]



                          ____________________




    