
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E1025]
                 HEALTH CARE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2012

                                 ______
                                 

                               speech of

                            HON. LOIS CAPPS

                             of california

                    in the house of representatives

                         Thursday, June 7, 2012

  Mrs. CAPPS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today out of concern regarding the 
Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2011 (H.R. 436).
  I am extremely disappointed that this bill, which addresses important 
issues, was needlessly injected with partisanship.
  The medical device industry is integral to both our health care 
system and our economy.
  Regardless of our political leanings, we should all be able to agree 
that it is in all of our best interests to support a thriving domestic 
medical device industry.
  I have met with a variety of people on this issue--innovators, 
manufacturers, patients, consumer advocates, and many other 
stakeholders.
  I understand their concerns about the impact that this policy would 
have, especially on small firms and in California, and wish we had the 
opportunity to look at a range of options to address them.
  Unfortunately, in the bill before us, the House Majority has once 
again found a way to poison a bill by slashing important insurance 
provisions in the Affordable Care Act.
  Yet again they have shown that they are willing to disregard American 
families in order to get a pithy sound bite and further their own 
divisive agenda.
  By removing protections for low- and moderate income families who 
receive subsidies to purchase private health insurance, this bill pits 
American families verse manufacturers.
  It essentially punishes people for improving their situation by 
getting a new job or a raise.
  The result? According to the Congressional Budget Office, an 
estimated 350,000 families would be added to the uninsured ranks, and 
others would be left debating between going for a promotion or paying a 
hefty tax bill.
  Health care is a right deserved by all, and shouldn't come with fear 
of punishment.
  And the idea of asking American families to choose between having 
health insurance and improving their financial situations is 
preposterous.
  Through this bill, the other side has shown that they are more 
concerned with dismantling health care reform than ensuring that the 
American people have access to health care.
  And therefore I cannot vote for it.

                          ____________________




    