
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E1707]
                   KEEP YOUR HEALTH PLAN ACT OF 2013

                                 ______
                                 

                               speech of

                          HON. GARY C. PETERS

                              of michigan

                    in the house of representatives

                       Friday, November 15, 2013

  Mr. PETERS of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of a 
temporary, one year extension of health care plans in the individual 
market. Although this bill isn't perfect, I believe it is important 
that Congress works together to give Michigan residents certainty and 
stability in their healthcare choices while the Administration works 
out the problems in the implementation of the Affordable Care Act.
  I want to emphasize my support for health care reform. I voted for 
this important law in 2010, and have voted 40 times against efforts to 
repeal and dismantle health care reform. However, many of my 
constituents have called my office confused by the cancellation letters 
sent by insurers. Compounding this confusion is the ongoing technology 
glitches that are keeping people from signing up on the exchanges and 
learning about new options for health insurance.
  At a time when too many Michigan families are still struggling 
economically, it is important that we keep our promises that the law 
would allow you to keep your insurance and doctor if you want to.
  The President announced his plan to grandfather in health care plans 
that have been recently canceled, but I believe that Congress must also 
vote to support that decision legislatively. I believe that this 
temporary, one year extension of health care plans is necessary while 
people can get the information they need to make the right choices for 
their family on the benefits of the Affordable Care Act.
  I support the President's requirement to have insurers disclose 
better information about these grandfathered plans and new plans that 
might be available. That is why I also joined in sending a letter to 
Secretary Sebelius stating that we must require insurers to explain to 
policyholders what benefits they would be losing under the 
grandfathered plans, and the tax credits and subsidies they could be 
eligible for in the new insurance marketplace. We must ensure that 
insurance companies provide a clear explanation when any future changes 
to plans are not a requirement of the Affordable Care Act.
  As I have always said, I am willing to work in order to make 
improvements to ACA as they are needed. Clearly a fix is needed to 
ensure that people can keep their insurance if they like it. It is 
important that we work together to give certainty on this issue, and 
Congress should pass a bipartisan bill to achieve this goal.

                          ____________________




    