
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Pages E368-E369]
   SUSPENDING THE INDIVIDUAL MANDATE PENALTY LAW EQUALS FAIRNESS ACT

                                 ______
                                 

                               speech of

                         HON. CHRIS VAN HOLLEN

                              of maryland

                    in the house of representatives

                        Wednesday, March 5, 2014

  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 4118, 
the 50th vote to undermine the Affordable Care Act.
  First, let me say, I'm concerned that many Marylanders, including my 
constituents, are struggling to sign up for health insurance through 
the state-based Marketplace due to technical issues. With open 
enrollment coming to a close at the end of the month, I urge the 
Administration, state governments, and insurance carriers to come 
together to assist applicants in getting eligibility determinations and 
enrolling in coverage as soon as possible. I appreciated the guidance 
provided by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) last 
week that would allow consumers the possibility of qualifying 
retroactive health insurance, tax credits and cost-sharing assistance. 
It's critical that CMS clarify that those individuals who take 
retroactive coverage will be protected from any undue penalties for the 
months prior to the effective date of retroactive coverage.
  The bill on the floor today is not about helping Marylanders or any 
other Americans, but rather about dismantling the Affordable Care Act 
and putting health insurance further out of reach for them. I want to 
be clear: the requirement that individuals take responsibility for 
ensuring they have adequate health insurance coverage was an idea 
espoused by the Heritage Foundation in the late 1980s. It was carefully 
crafted and includes exemptions for individuals facing hardships and 
those who can't afford insurance. Delaying the provision for everyone 
for a year, according to the Congressional Budget Office, would 
increase the number of uninsured by one million this year and two 
million in 2015, and lead to higher premiums. It's obvious that 
delaying the provision will undermine the protections and reforms that 
have taken effect and will introduce more instability into market.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge the House leadership to put an end to these 
Affordable Care Act repeal votes. We want to work with you to identify 
parts of the law that can be improved and develop serious solutions. 
Unfortunately, today's bill is not one of them. I urge my colleagues to 
oppose it.
    

[[Page E369]]



                          ____________________




    