
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Pages E1179-E1180]
IN SUPPORT OF THE SUPREME COURT DECISION UPHOLDING THE AFFORDABLE CARE 
                                  ACT

                                 ______
                                 

                         HON. LAURA RICHARDSON

                             of california

                    in the house of representatives

                        Thursday, June 28, 2012

  Ms. RICHARDSON. Mr. Speaker, after two years battling in the courts I 
am proud to announce today that the Supreme Court has upheld the 
Affordable Care Act. This has been a long and difficult fight, but I 
can say without a doubt it has been worth it.
  This landmark ruling will allow millions of Americans to rest easy, 
knowing that they will not be driven into debt from medical bills if 
they get sick. Children will no longer be denied possibly life saving 
healthcare because of

[[Page E1180]]

pre-existing conditions, and millions of young Americans will be able 
to stay on their parent's healthcare plans until they are 26.
  The function of government is to make life better for all Americans, 
regardless of socioeconomic background. The Affordable Care Act will 
improve the quality of life for working families, children and seniors. 
It will also strengthen our economy.
  President Obama is to be congratulated for his indispensable 
leadership in achieving the goal of affordable quality healthcare for 
all Americans, a goal we Democrats have been fighting for more than 75 
years.
  It is a fact of life that individuals do not have a choice in 
participating in the health care market. Eventually we will all get 
sick, and need medical attention. This bill requires every American to 
take control of their own coverage, and be responsible for themselves.
  I am proud to have voted in favor of this legislation two years ago, 
and prouder still to have stood on the steps of the Supreme Court today 
to celebrate the success of having the Affordable Care Act upheld. 
Today's ruling is a momentous occasion and a true victory for Americans 
across the nation.

                          ____________________




    