
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E389]
     MARKING 2ND ANNIVERSARY OF PASSAGE OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT

                                 ______
                                 

                           HON. RUSS CARNAHAN

                              of missouri

                    in the house of representatives

                        Tuesday, March 20, 2012

  Mr. CARNAHAN. Mr. Speaker, on this two year ``check up'' of the 
Affordable Care Act, I'd like to share with you some real life examples 
of how this important legislation is helping Missourians not only stay 
healthier personally, but improve the health of their small businesses 
as well.
  Last week I took part in a workshop for small businesses, to help arm 
them with solid information on how the Act can help their bottom line. 
Lew Prince is a co-owner of Vintage Vinyl, a St. Louis record store. 
It's a landmark. He's been in business for some 30 years and he's 
always provided health insurance for his employees. BUT, he said for 
the first time EVER, his health care costs went down, went DOWN to the 
tune of 25 percent. With the money he saved, he was actually able to 
give out a few raises, and he's hired a couple of new people.
  The Act has also made a difference for the Wells Family. Sharon Wells 
and her husband Russell have dealt with inordinate expense for his 
medicine for Parkinson's disease for years. Thanks to the donut hole 
coverage provided in the Affordable Care Act, Sharon tells me they have 
more money in the household budget now for groceries and gas, maybe 
even a movie from time to time.
  Even though these are just two small examples, they contribute to the 
overall ripple effect of the profound difference this law is making in 
real people's lives all over the country. In closing, when it comes to 
helping Americans be more healthy, the Affordable Care Act is precisely 
what Americans needed. Let's not do anything to interrupt this healthy 
course of action.

                          ____________________




    