
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E1319]
               THE ADVANTAGES OF HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS

                                 ______
                                 

                           HON. LARRY BUCSHON

                               of indiana

                    in the house of representatives

                        Wednesday, July 25, 2012

  Mr. BUCSHON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight some innovative 
health care programs being implemented by Applied Extrusion 
Technologies in Terre Haute, Indiana. AET Films is a leading supplier 
of specialized oriented polypropylene films in North America.
  In 2005, while being faced with ever increasing insurance premiums, 
they chose to take the path less traveled, empowering their employees 
through a high deductible health plan coupled with a health savings 
account. Over time they further implemented healthy employee incentives 
and education programs to help employees make better consumer-driven 
health decisions. The results of these programs have been irrevocable, 
as AET Films has seen near 0 percent premiums increases since 
implementation.
  With the Supreme Court's recent ruling, and our vote this week to 
repeal the Affordable Care Act in its entirety for the 4th time, it is 
important to understand the creative steps being taken in the private 
sector that lower health care costs, and incentivize better health 
outcomes--all without government control or interference. I commend AET 
for their innovation, and encourage the Senate and the President to 
join the House in repealing the Affordable Care Act, which dismantles 
innovative programs pursued by AET Films and job creators across the 
United States, and replace it with private sector reforms that lessen 
the cost of health care for all Americans.

                          ____________________




    