
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E1840]
   CONGRATULATING MARTIN'S POINT HEALTH CARE MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PLANS

                                 ______
                                 

                          HON. CHELLIE PINGREE

                                of maine

                    in the house of representatives

                      Wednesday, October 12, 2011

  Ms. PINGREE of Maine. Mr. Speaker, today I am thrilled to 
congratulate Martin's Point Health Care Medicare Advantage plans for 
receiving five-star quality ratings from the Centers for Medicare and 
Medicaid Services.
  Martin's Point Health Care is a not-for-profit health care 
organization that provides primary care services, health plans, and 
wellness services in Maine and other parts of northern New England.
  Under the direction of their president and chief executive officer, 
Dr. David Howes, Martin's Point has established a long tradition of 
providing high quality, efficient, and affordable care to thousands of 
veterans, seniors, and families in Maine.
  Today CMS announced that Martin's Point has received five-star 
ratings for both its Value and Prime Medicare Advantage plans--the 
highest possible rating granted by CMS.
  High quality care is not new to Martin's Point: for the last 3 years, 
Martin's Point has had the highest rated Medicare Advantage plan in 
Maine. But I am particularly proud to say that it is one of only nine 
Medicare Advantage organizations in the entire country to receive the 
CMS five-star designation for 2012.
  The five-star rating system helps Medicare beneficiaries compare 
available plans and make meaningful choices about which plans are right 
for them based on quality of care and customer service. As a five-star 
plan, Martin's Point will be able to assure potential patients that 
they offer the highest quality, patient-centered care. And thanks to 
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, this five-star rating 
will make Martin's Point Health Care eligible for quality bonus 
payments from CMS to help bolster their good work and ensure that 
patients in Maine will continue to benefit from their services for 
years to come.
  I want to congratulate Dr. Howes and the entire team of health care 
providers and support staff at Martin's Point for this tremendous 
accomplishment. Their commitment to delivering quality health care and 
service excellence is second to none.
  As we continue to work to shift our health care system to one that 
better values quality outcomes and patient experience, Martin's Point 
will stand as a model for health care organizations across the country, 
and a real asset to the people of Maine.

                          ____________________




    