
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E802]
   REPEALING MANDATORY FUNDING FOR SCHOOL HEALTH CENTER CONSTRUCTION

                                 ______
                                 

                               speech of

                          HON. EARL BLUMENAUER

                               of oregon

                    in the house of representatives

                          Tuesday, May 3, 2011

       The House in Committee of the Whole House on the State of 
     the Union had under consideration the bill (H.R. 1214) to 
     repeal mandatory funding for school-based health center 
     construction:

  Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Chair, I voted against H.R. 1214, which would 
repeal the grants for the construction and expansion of school-based 
health centers. The Affordable Care Act included funding to expand 
school-based health programs across America so that we can provide 
better care for our children. Students who are healthy are ready to 
learn.
  School-based health centers provide our children with quality, 
comprehensive care that includes mental health services, social 
services and preventative care. A survey conducted by the National 
Assembly on School-Based Health Care found that when properly funded, 
school-based health centers help fill the gap in access to health 
services, especially for rural and underserved populations.
  These centers are accountable to their communities through an 
advisory board made up of local representatives, family organizations 
and parents. These programs bring health care to our kids and provide 
service without concern for whether or not they can afford it.
  In my state of Oregon, we are part of the School Mental Health 
Capacity Building Partnership to examine and improve mental health 
programs to be used in school-based health centers. As an early-adopter 
state for these centers, Oregon was selected to be one of four states 
to lead the way on this research. This important work, focused on 
tailoring mental health care to better meet our children and youths 
needs, relies on the school-based health center funding and will be 
jeopardized by this legislation.
  H.R. 1214 would prevent us from investing in our children and driving 
down future health care costs. At the start of this Congress, the only 
alternative the Republicans offered to the Affordable Care Act was a 
repeal-and-do-not-replace approach that is irresponsible at best.
  The Affordable Care Act is not perfect, but Congress should be 
focused on implementing the Act, and refining--not repealing--its 
provisions. I oppose this legislation.

                          ____________________




    