
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Pages E304-E305]
               IN COMMEMORATION OF WOMEN'S HISTORY MONTH

                                 ______
                                 

                         HON. LAURA RICHARDSON

                             of california

                    in the house of representatives

                        Thursday, March 1, 2012

  Ms. RICHARDSON. Mr. Speaker, this March as we celebrate Women's 
History Month, I would like to take a moment to recognize all the great 
female leaders of our past and present. Throughout history women have 
persevered in the face of great opposition and successfully broken 
barriers in the arts, education, government and corporate America.
  This year's theme focuses on women's education and empowerment. It is 
important to note that the equal opportunity for women to learn 
alongside men is owed much to Title IX of the Education Codes of the 
Higher Education Act Amendments which passed in 1972 and was enacted in 
1977. This legislation prohibited gender discrimination by federally 
funded institutions, and allowed women to fully

[[Page E305]]

participate in all aspects of education effectively transforming the 
educational landscape of the United States.
  Mr. Speaker, women have taken great strides throughout the years to 
gain equal treatment. Unfortunately, in matters involving healthcare, 
women still face challenges. Very recently, women faced attacks by the 
House Republican majority regarding access to birth control. More 
disconcerting, these attacks escalated beyond misguided attempts to 
repeal the Affordable Care Act and deny women access to contraceptives, 
to restricting women's choices in the area of reproductive health 
altogether. Medical decisions about a woman's health must be left to 
the discretion of the patient and her doctor, not employers or the 
government.
  This is why I am proud to support President Obama's Affordable Care 
Act which will make a positive impact on women's access to health care 
and greatly decrease the number of women who are uninsured or 
``underinsured.'' Studies have shown that women who have health 
insurance don't necessarily receive certain types of medical care 
because either the services they need are not covered by their 
policies, or they cannot afford the high deductibles or co-payments. 
The Affordable Care Act changes this unfortunate reality by assisting 
women in gaining access to basic preventive health care in order to 
prevent life-threatening diseases in the future.
  Mr. Speaker, I am proud to stand here in celebration of women and 
their immeasurable contributions to this great Nation. As we pay 
tribute to the generations of women whose commitment to progress have 
proved invaluable to society, let us also renew our commitment to 
support women and the equal treatment of all in society, regardless of 
gender, race, or religion.

                          ____________________




    