
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Pages E1799-E1800]
                 IN SUPPORT OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT

                                 ______
                                 

                        HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE

                                of texas

                    in the house of representatives

                       Thursday, December 5, 2013

  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, it is no secret that many of our 
colleagues across the aisle are hoping and betting that the Affordable 
Care Act will fail.
  But every day it becomes clearer that they are losing that bet and 
their hope for failure is not shared by the American people, 105 
million of whom already have received coverage for one or more free 
preventive health care services like screenings for breast cancer and 
diabetes.
  In my state of Texas, thanks to the Affordable Care Act, more than 
5,198,00 individuals with private insurance who have received coverage 
for one or more free preventive services due to the Affordable Care 
Act.
  Children have received free vision and hearing screenings and 
recommended immunizations.
  Adults have received free immunizations and cancer screenings such as 
colonoscopies for cancer, cholesterol and high blood pressure 
screening; and HIV.
  Women have received preventive services such as recommended 
mammograms and Pap smears; screenings for gestational diabetes; and 
domestic violence counseling.
  Our Republican friends like to tell themselves that Obamacare is an 
unmitigated disaster. But to millions of Americans living in the real 
world, Obamacare is an unqualified success.


                       TEXAS--ACA SUCCESS STORIES

  Take Mark and Lucy for example,
  After comparing plans, Mark Sullivan, a new business owner, settled 
on a bronze option and added dental insurance. He will receive an $82 
per month subsidy, which will halve the monthly premium he will pay 
down to $78.
  Lucy is another Texan who is thankful for the Affordable Care Act, 
which is enabling her to save $2,300 a year on her premium and $4,000 
on her deductible.
  Lucy writes: ``I signed up at Healthcare.gov and I'm going to save 
$2,300 a year on my premium alone--and more, because my deductible will 
drop from $7,500 a year to $3,000 a year. It's still Blue Cross 
insurance, and I don't have to change doctors, either. I had a choice 
of over 30 plans and several different companies.''
  Mr. Speaker, my constituents in the i8th Congressional District of 
Texas favor the Affordable Care Act because they understand the 
insecurity and feeling of helplessness of being uninsured or 
underinsured. My home state of Texas has the highest percentage of 
uninsured, 27.6 percent in the nation, 4 percent more than Louisiana, 
the next state on the list.
  Mr. Speaker, health care coverage not only must be available and 
affordable but also adequate for consumers to have the health security 
and financial protection they need and deserve. The Affordable Care Act 
satisfies these criteria.
  Of course we should not be surprised by the House Republicans. After 
all, it is was the House Republicans who shut down the federal 
government for 16 days and cost the economy $24 billion while refusing 
to consider any legislation that would create jobs or address the real 
needs of the American people.

[[Page E1800]]



                          ____________________




    